- So this here is my
Titanium iPhone 15 Pro
that I've been using
with no case for 88 days,
or about three months now.
I wanna do more longer term reviews.
Not that three months is a
super long time to have a phone,
but in the usual smartphone
review space, at least,
for me, it's one to two weeks with a phone
before I'm summarizing
everything from my experience
and putting it into a review.
And so the longer I use a phone,
the more I'm able to
actually uncover about it,
especially about the way I use it.
So as someone who carries
two phones all the time
and the iPhone typically is
in my pocket for a long time,
I have a lot more stuff for this iPhone.
So first things first, I
haven't put my phone in a case
since the day I bought it.
Sometimes I regret
this, sometimes I don't.
It's pretty rare that I
actually drop my phone
and this one also hasn't yet been dropped,
but it does show some pretty
normal signs of wear and tear.
But it's nothing too concerning.
Like, I always start to get
some bigger cuts, like this,
on my front display glass
because of my refusal to
put on a screen protector.
And these here aren't any more
or less than usual despite, you know,
the fancy ceramic shield.
But I do really like
the switch to titanium
for the frame and the side
rails around this phone.
It looks way better than
the stainless steel.
It's also lighter
and I am also glad I went
with this lighter color
because this combo seems to
show the fewest fingerprints.
It looks the cleanest.
Overall, though I feel like I'm happy
with this spec that I went with.
Now, long-term behavior,
there are three really interesting
things about this phone.
Two of them, I feel
like I'm using way less
than I thought I would and one of them,
I'm using basically exactly
as much as I thought I would.
So first of all, in the
camera of the Pro iPhone,
this was the first year Apple announced
this sort of neat multiple
focal lengths feature.
So you can hit that 1x
button three different times
and get three different focal
lengths, 24 millimeters,
then 28 millimeters,
then 35 millimeter focal lengths,
all with the same quality.
I pretty much never use this feature.
I don't know if that means
I'm, like, not a true
smartphone photographer,
but I always just frame things at 1x
and that seems to be the end of it for me.
So I just don't use that feature,
even though our testing
does show that it works.
But I still think the new
button they added to iOS 17,
where if you zoom in on a
photo, a crop button appears
and that actually crops the photo.
That's significantly more
useful of a feature for me
and I actually think for
a lot of other people.
But then the action button is another one.
So this is a pretty big headlining feature
on this year's Pro iPhones,
this rare ability to
actually customize something
on your iPhone.
So I definitely feel like the UI
that they built into the
settings is still one
of the weirdest most
un-Apple-like stapled in pieces
of UI I've ever seen them do.
But hey, it works, it's great.
You can map the button
to basically almost anything you want.
But a lot of people
made a great observation
about the placement of this button
when the phone first launched,
which is, like, the
reason that mute switch
that we used to have was so great,
is 'cause it was sort of
tucked up in the corner
and out of the way.
So you could just never
even think about it.
Just leave your phone on
mute forever and be fine.
But Apple is very stubborn
about placing this action button
in the exact same spot where
the mute switch used to be,
which does mean it's
kind of out of the way.
It's a little bit, annoyingly,
not very reachable,
especially when you use
the phone with one hand.
So when I first got the phone,
I mean, I was going nuts
with all the possibilities
of the crazy things
that I could think of to do with it.
First thing I did was map
it to Google Assistant,
since I never use Siri,
but having a quick toggle
to the better assistant is
hilarious and more useful to me.
Then I later briefly switched it
to toggle starting a new voice
conversation with ChatGPT.
So the ChatGPT chatbot has its own voice
and you can have a voice
conversation with it
and it's really cool,
but it isn't the most
useful thing in the world.
Like, it's cool that it can
do complex math and reasoning
and generate new things for you,
but then it can't see your
calendar or tell you the weather
or do anything current events related.
So that didn't last long.
So then I switched to
starting a new dialogue box
for a new task in my to-do
list app of choice, TickTick,
and this one's pretty cool.
You hit the button and it
literally opens a text box
and you just start typing a new task.
Really, really nice if you just happen
to remember something somewhere.
But I also totally still
have the muscle memory
to just go home and open
the app whenever I need it.
I also have a lock screen task to do that.
So it was a little bit redundant for me.
So I've ended up with my action button
just being set to open the
camera and that's the fastest,
most convenient way to
get to the camera for me.
Yes, there is a lock screen shortcut also,
but I just find that
if I am doing something
and I just need to quickly
get a picture of something
that's happening or
something's about to go away,
I don't wanna miss it.
Like, I just have this muscle memory now
to just hit that button
and just take the photo.
You can actually have
it open to take a selfie
or take some other types
of photos or videos.
I just have it open to
viewfinder and I'm good.
So then, of course, USB Type-C
was the biggest headlining feature
of this newest generation of
iPhones, hilariously enough.
Slow USB 2.0 speeds on the base iPhone 15,
but then USB 3.2 speeds
on the 15 Pro and Pro Max,
which makes a pretty big difference
when importing tons of ProRes footage,
even if it isn't Thunderbolt speeds yet.
First of all, thank you,
Europe, it's about damn time.
Even as someone who is a pretty
heavy wireless charger user,
I do have to say, it is much nicer.
It's been great to just have one cable
to charge almost
everything from this iPhone
to any Android phone to
the iPad Pro to my laptop.
But unfortunately, I have
not been able to get rid
of my lightning cable just yet
because there are still
other things in my ecosystem,
in Apple's ecosystem,
that haven't switched to USB-C quite yet.
Mostly because AirPods Max is
my headphones for traveling
of choice and I still have
to carry the lightning cable
everywhere just to charge those.
But there's also still the Magic keyboard
and the Apple Magic Trackpad.
I really don't know how
long it's gonna take Apple
to go through and also update
all of these things to be USB Type-C,
but I guess my lightning
cables are sticking
around a little while longer
until they refresh all that stuff.
The AirPods Max came
out at the end of 2020,
so word on the street is they may be due
for a refresh sometime
soon, but we don't know.
Definitely get subscribed to
see the review of the new ones
whenever they do come
out, but as of right now,
they're still lightning.
So there have been
several software updates
to the iPhone 15 lineup since it came out.
It launched on iOS 17, which
made all types of headlines,
but then we've already
made it to iOS 17.2.
The new Journal app is live now,
which I have a few friends
that use, but I don't use it.
There's, of course, been
a bunch of bug fixes
and optimizations since
we heard about, you know,
the Instagram app and
those random heat problems.
Those seem to also be fixed and gone.
And there's also a
curious new little button
in the camera app.
So if you go to Settings and then Camera
and then under Formats,
there's a new toggle
to be able to record spatial
video for the Apple Vision Pro.
So things seem to be
lining up interestingly
for the Vision Pro to actually
launch sometime in January
or February, which should be pretty cool.
And if you remember watching that one demo
of spatial videos on the Vision Pro, yes,
you can record them on the
headset, which looks hilarious,
but you can also record them on an iPhone,
specifically only on an
iPhone 15 or 15 Pro so far
because of the horizontal alignment
of the main and ultra-wide cameras.
So if you go into the camera app
with that new check toggled, in video,
there's a little headset icon,
and if I select that, I'm now shooting
that special spatial video,
which means a few things.
First of all, you must
turn your iPhone sideways
to landscape because your
eyes are next to each other
and not on top of each other.
And it also will limit you to 1080p 30fps
because it's actually
processing two streams
of video at once,
one from the primary
camera that you can see,
but then the other one
from the ultra-wide camera
for your other eye.
So you can go crazy
right now and just go out
and start shooting a bunch of
spatial videos on your iPhone.
But if you go watch them on your phone,
they will look just like normal videos
because it's only gonna play back
the video from the main camera.
If you wanna see and
appreciate the spatialness
of the video, you will
need an Apple Vision Pro.
Now, I've actually gotten to
experience the App Vision Pro
a few more times since
that initial preview video
that I did from Apple Park, flex, I know.
But what I've actually gotten to do
with it is shoot a bunch
of my own spatial videos
and then watch them back on the headset.
And the main thing I really
learned is they look okay.
I think the dramatic part is, like,
when you get the subject
within two, three, four feet
of the camera, then it's,
like, really dramatic,
kind of like a 3D movie.
Then you see things popping out at you.
So Pro tip, if you're gonna take a bunch
of spatial videos now,
that's the sweet spot
for it to actually be worth it.
Oh, and also, another Pro tip,
it took me months to learn this,
but if you ever have anything happening
on the Dynamic Island, you
can swipe across it to hide it
or change the view style,
in case you're annoyed
by, like, a train ticket
or an Uber delivery
that's taken up space up there
or something you just don't
wanna see up there anymore.
So go ahead and swipe, the more you know.
So clearly, you don't have to
upgrade your phone every year
or every two years or very often at all.
But the more I use this phone, the 15 Pro,
the more I'm confident that
this is one of the good years
to upgrade, from the updated
cameras to the USB Type-C
to the titanium.
Like, there's the concept
of an upgrade sweet spot,
and I feel like this phone hit it,
especially for people
with much older iPhones.
So I'll leave you with this.
In the original iPhone 15 Pro Review,
I compared this phone to the Porsche 911
in that the design doesn't
really change a whole lot
from generation to generation.
They, instead, spend a
really long time refining
and honing in on a slightly better version
of the same thing.
So I just turned 30 recently.
Still weird saying that out loud,
but for my 30th birthday, I
decided to take that plunge too.
Yes, it is matte black,
but I can now say that once
you start living with a 911,
you actually appreciate that strategy
just a little bit more.
It is not flashy, it's
not dramatic, it's boring,
it's predictable, it's
familiar, confidence inspiring.
Also, this entire video, every single shot
was shot on an iPhone 15 Pro.
Thanks for watching.
Catch you guys on the next one, peace.
(bright upbeat music)